but for most males being big and
pugnacious is the only way on a beach in
California bull elephant seals are
spoiling for a fight where size is
everything and biggest is best
with three tons of quivering flesh the
heaviest males have sex appeal and
females galore however there's constant
pressure from Bachelor boards like this
one to take over their Hari those are
ten years old before they become serious
contenders for sex
as males can only expect to live for
twelve this is a crucial contest for the
Challenger it's perhaps his only chance
to breed only one in ten males ever
succeeds in fathering some pups
the champions emerge through combat
on this occasion it's the Challenger who
is thrashed after his violent
demonstration of brute force the
victorious Beach master returns to claim
his spoils multiple meetings the prize
which sets all males apart from females
but females are not simply passive
recipients of male lust although it
looks as though competitive males have
sex all their own way they don't
you